# fabio_simka_portfolio
# About me
Hello! I am Fabio Simka, a passionate and results-driven professional with a proven track record in leveraging data-driven insights and innovative cloud solutions to drive business growth and transformation. With a diverse background in data science, analytics and cloud architecture, I bring a unique blend of technical expertise and strategic vision that enables me to deliver exceptional value to any organization. I am committed to continuous learning and thrive in dynamic, collaborative environments that foster innovation and growth. My adaptability, critical thinking skills, and strong communication abilities allow me to effectively collaborate with cross-functional teams and drive impactful results in challenging and fast-paced settings. I am excited about the prospect of contributing my expertise to a forward-thinking organization that values innovation and embraces a data-centric approach to decision-making. Please find my detailed portfolio below, showcasing my projects, technical proficiencies, and a comprehensive overview of my professional journey.
# Projects - Uploaded files 
Project 1: I used a neural net code in a predictive analysis of the probability of a local epidemic hitting a place, according to data extracted from the World Health Organization (WHO). In this predictive analysis, the goal was to identify seasonal patterns of the epidemics, and predict if and when certain locations will have an epidemic on their hands. Technologies and Knowledge: NeuralNet, Python, Machine Learning, Predictive Analysis. Link for project 1: codes/NeuralNet Python

Project 2: Used an AWS Cloud Solutions to solve a problem envolving three different sources of data to make the ingestion, as well the storage of the data in a data lake. It also encompasses the security measures for the data lake, as well as Cloud Solutions to conduct the analysis of that dataset, be it through analytical or machine learning settings. Technolgies and Knowledge: AWS Cloud Solutions Architecture, Critical Thinking. Link for project 2: cloud_solutions/DataLake.jpg

Project 3: Used AWS Cloud solutions for the customer who had a need to run containers on AWS and to use the same orchestration device for both Cloud and on-premises. It was opted for a seamless transition to cloud-native services as demonstrated visually on the file. It was also needed to host a SQL database and to store that generated base with minimum refactoring and resilience to fallovers. Link for project 3:cloud_solutions/AWS Container With Resilience.jpg

Project 4: The elaboration of a contact book tool using Python language to improve organization in a company with a list of clients in constant updates, this code proved effective in maintaining data integrity by using a contact database, with error handling and validation to manage contacts with efficiency, increasing productivity and becoming the foundational project for a learning database. Link to project 4: codes/contact_book

Project 5: In this cloud architecture model, the cliente needed an HTTPS endpoint for data collection, using services that charged per usage and not per time and he was already using an S3 static website hosting. By using that analogy it was opted for cross region data replication and encryption, using different storage classes to save coste, improving data movement, analytics and visualization. Link for project 5: cloud_solutions/HTTPS Endpoint.jpg

Project 6: In this model, the client had a business which many of the server workload was intrincately coupled, in other words, if one part of the server failed, all work would be interrupted. On top of that, the monitoring was made in several different manual spreadsheets and there was much operational overhead, with limited staff which was directly impacting on performance. To solve all those issues, we used decoupling functions with Lambda, so that the system would have high resilience to fallovers of any kind. On top of that it was introduced a central monitorizing with cloudwatch and optimizing cost and reducing operational overhead with serverless cloud services. On top of that, implemented a simple notification system (SNS) to message specific individuals in case of any fail in the system operations. Link for project 6: cloud_solutions/High resilience system.jpg
